This training session will cover Rego.
Rego is a declarative language
for defining policies.
Rego policies are expressed as
predicates over structured data.
This structured data is represented
using javascript object notation.
This training covers the basic Rego features that
will be needed to implement provenance policies.
Policies in Rego begin with a head, which is
the name of the policy. The head is followed
by the body, which defines a list of
expressions inside a pair of braces.
Each expression in the body is evaluated
to determine if the policy is true
or false. For example, policy1 on the right is
true if all of the expressions 1 to n are true.
Rego provides many operators seen in
other languages such as arithmetic,
assignment, or equality. Note that variables are
immutable meaning they cannot be changed after
their initial assignment. The example policy
named final_policy demonstrates comments,
assignment, arithmetic, and equality. Final_policy
will always evaluate to true in this case.
In Rego, arguments may be optionally
passed to policies. The syntax is similar
to functions in many other languages.
For example, the following policy isZero
returns true if the argument x is equal to zero.
Input is created using javascript object
notation or JSON. Provenance graphs can be
defined as a set of vertices and edges. Each
vertex contains a name and a type and each
edge contains a relation type, a source, and a
destination. For example, the provenance graph
below can be defined using the following JSON. The
graph has two vertices and an edge between them.
JSON data consists of a name and value pair. For
example, name colon Average is one such pair.
There are two key-value types needed
for defining provenance graphs:
objects and arrays. Braces define an object and
values can be accessed using the dot operator.
Brackets define an array; the usual
bracket notation can be used to access
values in the array. For example,
input dot vertices bracket 0 dot name
is Average in the input on the right.
This notation can be used in Rego.
Now let's cover some common scenarios. The
negation policy asserts that a policy or
expression is not true. In rego, this can be
done using the not keyword. The not keyword
can be followed by a policy name or expression. In
the left example, the not keyword is used with an
expression, while in the right example, it is used
with a policy name. These examples are equivalent.
The conjunction policy, also called "and",
asserts that multiple expressions are true.
Conjunction is implicit in rego. For final_policy
to be true, both e1 and e2 must be true.
The disjunction policy, also called "or",
asserts that either expression e1 is true,
e2 is true, or both e1 and e2 are true.
For disjunction in rego. define two
policies with the same name. For example, the
following two policies are named final_policy.
If either instance is true, then
final_policy will evaluate to true.
The existential policy asserts that an
expression is true for some variable x.
Variable x can be used in that
expression. To define such a policy,
the some keyword can be used. The following
policy requires there exists some vertex
x named Average. The vertex can be used as a
placeholder to access arrays, as in this example.
The universal policy asserts that an expression
is true for every possible variable x. Variable
x can be used in that expression. Rego does
not explicitly support this, however, it can be
accomplished by defining an existential policy and
negating that policy. Final_policy requires that
for all vertices x, x is not named Average. This
is done by defining averageExists, a helper policy
which requires there exists some x named Average.
Final_policy then negates this helper policy.
The edge policy asserts there is an edge between
two vertices with a certain label or relation.
Possible labels are: was attributed to,
was derived from, was generated by, used,
acted on behalf of, was associated with, or
was informed by. While rego does not explicitly
support this either, it can be accomplished using
the some keyword and the equality operator. The
example policy requires an edge with label used
to exist between the Average and SalaryB vertices.
To write a policy that combines the existential
and universal policies in Rego, the policy
argument feature is required. The following
slide has an example. The following policy
combines universal and existential policies: for
all node agents, there exists some outgoing edge.
The following Rego implements
this policy. At the bottom,
the hasEdges policy checks if vertex x has
an outgoing edge. The nodeNoEdge policy
returns true if there exists some node agent and
that node agent has no edges. This is done by
passing the node agent to the hasEdges policy and
negating the result. Finally, similar to before,
final_policy negates the nodeNoEdge policy.
If there is no node agent without an edge,
then all node agents must have at least one
outgoing edge, and final_policy is thus true.
Now let's go over some provenance examples.
The following interface will be provided to
implement your rego policies. The left section
provides a code editor with syntax highlighting
to define your policies. Note your final answer
should be named final_policy. This will be
the policy used for determining correctness.
On the right, the question and a few example
inputs are provided. The inputs are provided
in the JSON format seen earlier. You may switch
between the different examples using the tabs
above. Each input contains a note saying if
it should or should not satisfy the policy.
Finally, once you are ready to test your
policy, you may use the evaluate button below.
If your policy is correct, you will
be presented with a correct message.
Write a policy to ensure that activity
Average used data entity SalaryB. First,
let's take a look at the sample input. Input 1
has an edge between Average and SalaryB, which
is labeled used, seen here. As the hint suggests,
this input should satisfy the policy. Inputs 2
and 4 should also satisfy the
policy, while 3 and 5 do not.
Since we need to check for the existence of an
edge, we begin with the some keyword to create
variable i like so. I represents
some edge in the input. Using i,
we place requirements on the edge by using the
input keyword and accessing the edges array,
like so. In this case, we require that the
relation be used, we require that the source
be Average, and for the destination to
be SalaryB. We implement this like so.
And finally the destination.
And perfect. When we click evaluate, each
possible value for i will be used until
one is found that makes all three
equalities true. If none is found,
the policy evaluates to false. In this
case, our policy works correctly for
all five inputs and you can see that we
have received the correct message here.
Write a policy to ensure that data entity
AverageSalary was not derived from SalaryC.
For this policy, we need to check
that, for all data entities,
AverageSalary was not derived from SalaryC.
Since this is a universal policy, we need to
first define the opposite existential policy;
that is, AverageSalary is derived from SalaryC.
The existential policy named derivedSalC is very
similar to the previous example. Some x is used to
find if there exists an edge with the correct
relation source and destination. To finish,
final_policy negates derivedSalC, returning true
if AverageSalary was not derived from SalaryC.
Write a policy to ensure that activity Average
used key entity KeyB and KeyB was attributed to
account agent Bob. For this policy, there are
two different edges that must be checked for:
one labeled used between Average and KeyB
and one labeled was attributed to between KeyB and
Bob. Since two different edges must be checked,
the some keyword is used to declare an
x and a y. The x is used to find if the
edge between Average and KeyB exists, and
y is used to find the edge between KeyB and
Bob. If an x and y can be found that makes these
equalities true, then final_policy returns true.
Write a policy to ensure that there is some
data entity that AverageSalary was derived from.
This example requires that an edge, starting
at AverageSalary, ends in a data entity.
This requires us to check the vertex type,
which can only be found in the vertex array.
To do this, the some keyword creates an x variable
to represent the edge and a y to represent the
vertex. The policy begins by finding an x such
that the edge is labeled was derived from and
begins at salary. Next, both x and y are used
to find the destination vertex by comparing
the name. Finally, the vertex type is checked.
Write a policy to ensure for every data entity,
if activity Average used the data entity,y
then the data entity was attributed to either
Bob, Alice, or Mallory. This policy requires
all of the techniques seen earlier.
First, this is a universal policy
as we must check every data entity. Thus, we first
need the opposite existential policy; that is,
one of the data entities was attributed to someone
other than Bob, Alice, or Mallory. A helper policy
notBAM will check for this. We will need to
check two edges and a vertex for this policy.
First, we use x to find the used edge from average
and then use y to find the destination vertex.
Y is then used to check the vertex type and is
then used with z to find an outgoing edge. Z
is used to check the edge label and that the
destination is not Bob, Alice, or Mallory.
To finish, the final_policy
negates the notBAM policy.
In the case of an incorrect policy, an
error message will be presented. Syntax
or other errors in the code will be presented
with a line number to help find the error.
If the policy is valid but incorrect the
warning will list the inputs that did not pass.